Welcome to Inside Directory Services.
Just as a summary,
how many of you were here last year?
How many of you had a seat last year?
OK, far fewer.
They gave us a bigger room.
Thank you for attending last year.
For those of you who were here last year,
I promised a pool, an open bar.
They told me they couldn't install
a pool on the second floor.
And the Jamba Juice bar is apparently
the closest I could get for an open bar.
So please, please partake of that.
So we're going to be talking about
Directory Services this year.
Again, my name is David Michael O'Rourke.
I'm the engineering
manager for Open Directory.
And we have an exciting program
and a lot of exciting developments.
So why don't we get started?
I have a lot of material to cover.
So the overview of what we're
going to cover today is Apple's
Open Directory technology.
What is it for those of you
who are not familiar with it?
What is Directory Services?
A review of what we've already
accomplished in Panther,
future plans for Tiger,
and we hope to follow up with some
interesting questions and answers.
So Open Directory is a technology name.
It covers both how the
clients access directories,
and it also talks about how we
integrate with industry standards.
We also provide an Open Directory server,
which is a combination
of LDAP and MIT KDC,
the password server, and the Samba PDC.
Open Directory is built into
Mac OS X client and server,
and it's been there since
the original 10.0 release,
and it's open sourced as part of Darwin.
So we're not keeping
anything secret here.
If you want to see how
Open Directory does its work and
maybe port it to Linux or something,
you can go download it
from the Darwin website and
bring it to that platform.
This slide is a quick review of
the technologies and the timeline
of where we're going to be.
So we started out with Mac OS 10.0.
We had it only on the server.
We had LDAP v2.
We then added to 10.0.
We then added to the desktop for 10.1.
Everything in blue is the new
incremental change for that release.
So LDAP v3, the NIS and flat file plugin,
Apple Talk, SLP, Rendezvous,
and SMB for 10.2.
In 10.3,
we added Active Directory support
as well as firming up the
plugins that were there.
And for Tiger,
we have a whole bunch of new exciting
features that we're going to get
into later in the presentation.
What is Directory Services?
The first and most important part
of Directory Services is it's an
abstraction API for allowing applications
to write to one set of APIs and not
have to care about the back-end storage.
And the typical information access
to an Open Directory is users,
groups, mount records,
and other types of configuration data.
It also contains a full authentication
abstraction to conducting challenge
response protocols like APOP,
NTLMv2, or CRAMv5.
Apple layers all of their software
on top of Directory Services.
So we put all of our
Mac OS X software on top of
Directory Services from login window,
all the server admin tools,
even system preferences,
all use Directory Services to show
you all of that configuration data.
And on the back-end
of Directory Services,
we have various plug-ins for NetInfo,
LDAP, BSD files, and others.
And we even have some third-party
plug-ins where third parties
have extended Open Directory.
What does Directory Services in
10.3 include?
It includes an LDAPv3 read and
write plugin so that we can
work with any LDAPv3 server.
It includes a native
Active Directory plugin that
was new last year and I believe
there was some applause.
We have NetInfo,
which is Apple's legacy directory server,
and we have read-only support
for NIS and BSD/SE files.
We also, as of Jaguar,
started adding service discovery.
So we have service discovery
plugins for Rendezvous,
SMB or Windows networks, AppleTalk,
and SLP.
So, /network,
how many of you browse /network ever?
Okay.
Everything you see in /network
comes out of Open Directory.
The LDAPv3 client also
supports replication failover,
so you can set up multiple LDAP servers.
If one goes down,
the LDAPv3 client will find
another and your users won't
notice that your server crashed.
Documented access APIs and plugin APIs,
there's an SDK,
we have lots of sample code,
and there are now command line tools
that we started including since,
I believe Tiger was
the first command line,
or Jaguar,
Panther was the first command line tool.
And the most popular
of these tools is DSCL.
I actually get a lot of
questions what that stands for.
That stands for
Directory Services Command Line.
Nothing more, nothing less.
So we call it DSCL and it's our
favorite tool because it allows
us to debug what's going wrong.
wrong.
[Transcript missing]
In 10.3, the Finder network browsing
was moved on to Open Directory,
so this is a typical view of Slash
Network that you see on the Finder.
All of the data that's in the middle
column there comes from Open Directory.
The server list, the stuff on the right,
also comes from Open Directory.
So Open Directory controls the
vertical and the horizontal of
what shows up under Slash Network.
So if you go to Directory Access and
you turn off Apple Talk,
all the Apple Talk zones will
disappear from Slash Network.
If you turn it back on,
they'll all reappear.
So you use Directory Access to
control this,
and so when you're browsing
to connect to servers,
you're using Open Directory.
This slide is an old slide.
Any of you who have seen this
before now recognize this,
but apparently there's some new people
in the audience that will go over it.
So when we started doing Open Directory,
we had a problem.
We didn't want to have to recode
all of the open source POSIX or
BSD code to use a new set of APIs.
So we had to figure out how to get those
tools to use Open Directory without
having to recode them.
So fortunately,
the Next people had already
solved that problem on Next Step,
and they had written in
a module called LookUpD.
And they had already moved all
the POSIX stuff onto LookUpD.
So the system already had abstracted
where most of those tools get
users and groups information.
So we simply added a plugin to
LookUpD to call into Directory Services,
and voila, any plugins you add
to Directory Services,
you benefit both native applications
using Directory Services and
legacy applications using LookUpD.
And the whole system then gets a
unified view of what its users,
groups, and mount records are.
So Mac OS X 3 server includes
a complete directory server.
It includes LDAP v3
based on OpenLDAP 2.1.x.
Jason, what's the x right now?
Point two?
22, thank you.
We support Mac OS 10.2 and 10.3 clients.
We enhanced the Open Directory password
server to support SASL-based
authentication and replication.
We added a fully integrated Kerberos
server with the help of MIT,
and we support Windows client
integration by PDC.
So you can set up an
Open Directory server,
create users and groups,
and use them both on
Windows and on Macintosh,
and if they change their
password on Windows,
it reflects on the
Macintosh and vice versa.
So you can set up a fully
integrated heterogeneous network.
Replication support for LDAP and
authentication was added.
This is important so that
you don't have a single point
of failure on your network.
Thank you.
So we did the server.
You have Panther.
Let's talk about what's
going on in Tiger.
So we are making changes to
Directory Services for Tiger,
which I believe is why
everyone's in the audience.
So what's new for Tiger?
We have enhancements
to the LDAPv3 plugin.
We have enhancements to the
Active Directory plugin.
We have enhancements to the server suite.
We have enhancements to
the administration tools.
Believe it or not,
how many of you attended the excellent
Access Control presentation on Tuesday?
Well, Access Controls don't come for free
without affecting the Directory Server.
If you want nested groups,
you're going to have to have some
way to store them in the Directory.
So Directory Services didn't get off
scot-free in the Access Control model,
and we have some changes that
we're adopting to support another
part of the product that's
a big feature here at Tiger.
We have enhancements to network browsing
that we call Managed Network Browsing.
I have a feeling that's
going to be very popular.
And we have some further refinements
to local and server authentication
that we're going to go over.
[Transcript missing]
In order to implement this,
we have to provide each computer
with an account in the LDAP server.
Well, this also now provides the ability
to lock down your LDAP server
to only your trusted clients.
So, coming in Tiger or shortly after,
we'll have options to lock down
the directory server so that only
the people who have been bound to
it are allowed to read the data.
And this will be the beginning of
a very long transition for Apple to
be able to no longer have to have
your directory system world readable,
which has been a historic
requirement up until now.
We also have command line tools
to support mass deployment.
So, if you want to,
we don't want you to have
to visit 15,000 machines,
go to directory access,
and enter a computer name and ID.
We're providing a command
line tool along the lines of
DS Active Directory Config or
DSAD Config.
We're providing DS LDAP Config.
Is that where we're?
Okay.
So, we're providing a config tool
which will support mass deployment
for you net administrators who
want to build a system image.
Active Directory client changes.
Active Directory is
continuing to be developed.
We're not done.
Neither is Microsoft.
We've got to keep up with any
changes they add to Active Directory.
So we're moving aggressively in
that space and making sure that all
the work we do is still relevant.
Some AD enhancements have
already shipped in 10.3 updates.
We now support SMB network
home directories.
In the original release of Panther,
you couldn't do SMB home directories.
If you use the command line
Active Directory Configuration tool,
you can enable SMB home directories.
We've improved compatibility with a wider
range of Active Directory configurations.
Some customers had configurations
we didn't anticipate.
They didn't work.
We fixed it.
and Tiger Server will have improved
Active Directory integration.
You will now be able
to take a Tiger Server,
point it to an Active Directory system,
and use the Kerberos services of the
Active Directory system natively.
In addition,
the development team has been
burning the midnight oil,
and we figured out how to do it
such that you don't even have to use
the Active Directory administration
tools to do it.
You can do everything from
within server administration.
The AD plugin will also fully
support Active Directory groups
for file system ACLs.
So if you have an
Active Directory system in your network,
you can use Tiger's new file
system access control support with
Active Directory groups natively,
including the nested groups.
And of course,
we'll continue to work with Microsoft,
and they will continue
to send us bug reports,
and we will address them.
And we want to be cooperative
with Microsoft because
Active Directory is here to stay,
and we're going to make sure Mac OS X is
a first-class citizen of those networks.
So let's talk about the
Open Directory Server Suite.
Open Directory consists of four servers
cleverly hidden behind a single checkbox
of let's become an Open Directory master.
It consists of OpenLDAP,
the password server,
the MIT KDC with some very minor tweaks,
and the Samba PDC, and now with Tiger,
a backup domain controller.
So when you say I want to become an
Open Directory master or replica,
what's happening underneath the
covers is we're running out and
configuring four different services to
all work in unison with each other to
provide a single directory experience.
The Tiger Open Directory Server will
migrate to the newest OpenLDAP server,
which is currently 2.2.7.
That will change because we don't
control the OpenLDAP development cycle.
They'll be on a newer version.
If possible,
we'll ship the newest version.
What's in the Tiger CD today
is OpenLDAP 2.2.7.
That's an upgrade from 2.1.22.
We'll be adding some new features,
which I'll be going
over in another slide.
We'll have some minor updates
to the password server.
We'll ship the latest MIT KDC.
Samba PDC will be upgraded to offer
backup domain controller functionality.
If your Open Directory master
has to be taken offline for
backups or some other reason,
you can have a backup domain controller
so your Windows users can still log on.
Most of these changes will
be transparent to the client.
In fact, I think all of them will.
I just did most because
you can never promise all.
But 10.3 and 10.2 clients
will continue to work,
and there should be no noticeable
difference on your client side.
So for Open Directory LDAP changes,
we are investing in Open LDAP.
Up until now, we've just been compiling,
importing, and integrating Open LDAP,
but we're beginning an effort
of actually improving it.
Open LDAP has some deficiencies
that we wish to address.
All of the changes that we're going
to make will be submitted back
to the Open LDAP team as well as
being posted on the Darwin website,
so none of these changes will
be secret or proprietary.
The biggest changes we're
doing is currently right now,
Open LDAP keeps all of the
schema in a config file.
Well, the problem with that is if
you have a lot of replicas,
you have to run around each
of the replicas and manually
update the config file.
We thought it would be kind
of cool to use the replication
technology to actually migrate
or propagate the schema changes,
so we're now offering an optional
configuration where all of
the LDAP schema is actually
stored in the LDAP database.
So replication and administrative
changes are all propagated.
We're also moving the LDAP access control
model to be stored in the directory.
So through Workgroup Manager and Spectre,
you'll be able to add new
schema to the LDAP server,
change the access control model,
hit save, and you don't have to visit
each of the replicas and
manually update the config file.
We think this will be a huge
feature and should really
ease the administration load.
And as it says there,
all the changes will be open source
and given to the Open LDAP project
as well as posted on Darwin.
Open Directory will also expose support
for LDAP's organizational units.
We've received a lot of
requests to be able to set up
folders in the LDAP server.
I want to set up a single LDAP server,
have a group of users for marketing,
a group of users for engineering,
and a group of users for finance.
We'll now offer direct support for
structuring your LDAP server into
subgroups through LDAP's existing
and excellent support for the OU,
or Organizational Unit, scheme.
This will allow a single LDAP server
to host multiple groups of users or
mount records or preference data or
whatever is stored in Open Directory.
We think this will be a wonderful
feature and we're looking forward to it.
Unfortunately, nothing comes for free.
Because of all the changes
we're putting in LDAP,
it's just impossible to mix older
LDAP servers with newer LDAP servers,
because the old LDAP servers don't know
to look for the schema in the directory.
The old LDAP servers don't know
that there's organizational units.
Therefore, it will not be possible
to mix 10.3 servers for
Open Directory with 10.4 servers.
So your Open Directory system will
either have to be based on Panther,
or you'll have to move the entire system
with all of its replicas up to Tiger.
We tried,
it's just not possible to mix with all
the changes we're putting in Open LDAP.
So this should make it easier
for an administration load,
because any of the options we
explored around mixing the two would
be an administrative nightmare.
So we'll provide migration tools.
There will be clear documentation.
It should be pretty simple.
There's not that many
Open Directory masters and
replicas on your networks.
Only those machines will need to
be all the same version of the OS.
I want to be clear,
Tiger Client can use either.
It's just the servers that you can't mix.
Mac OS X Server Administration tools
are also being enhanced.
These are Workgroup Manager,
Server Admin.
The two major features in Workgroup
Manager are ones that have been done as
a direct result of customer feedback.
Therefore, you can applaud if you want,
but we already know you've been
begging us for these for years,
so we're finally going to address them.
The first one is a GUI-based import tool.
Currently, if you want to do import,
you have to specify this rather
archaic first line in the import file,
and people have told us
they don't like to do that.
They're Macintosh users.
They don't want to have to learn
archaic first lines of import files.
So we're doing a picker,
which lets you browse the import
file and pick fields and say
this field is the UID field,
this field is the record name field.
It's not any different than what
Excel or FileMaker does for an import.
This will be a huge feature.
The next feature is, in my mind,
the most exciting feature,
Search and Apply.
Currently, we have a relatively
simplistic search function.
But what if you have a
directory with 500,000 users,
and you want to find all the
third graders and move them
from one file server to another?
You can do that with Batch
Edit if you command-click each
of the individual entries,
but that gets kind of laborious.
I tried doing it for 50,
and I just couldn't get
the 50th click right.
So we've added Search and Apply.
This is the ability to
specify arbitrary queries,
and then we can also make changes.
It's akin to Find and
Replace in a developer tool.
So what you can do with
Search and Apply is say,
find me all the user records who
have a keyword of third grade,
and for every record
that meets that criteria,
make this change.
And it will run in the background
and generate a report when it's done,
telling you what it did
to your directory system.
So Search and Apply is a new change,
and it should greatly support
the new directory system.
We also have a new command line tool for
creating group records in the new schema.
We are changing the group schema.
The group schema will be GUID-based
instead of short-name-based.
It also has nested groups,
which Unix has no.
Since it's GUIDs, I don't think,
how many of you can type 128-bit
UID off the top of your head?
I didn't think so.
So we will have a new command line tool,
which is in Tiger today,
with a man page called DSEditGroup.
DSEditGroup is a command line tool which
lets you compose the new directory.
It's very simple.
You specify a group name,
you specify a user name,
and it will add and remove users to
the groups and compose them correctly.
I encourage you to check it out.
Workgroup Manager has already
been updated to compose groups.
So a hidden feature in Workgroup
Manager is if you take the Tiger version
that you have in your goodie bags,
you can take a group and drag it
in using Workgroup Manager today.
The operating system doesn't yet have
the kernel changes for recognizing that,
but you can go ahead and
compose the group schema using
the administration tools.
And the Open Directory administration
will offer one-click backup and restore.
What we will do in Server Admin,
there will be a backup button.
It will backup your Kerberos data,
your password server data, your PDC data,
your Open Directory data,
and dump it all into an encrypted
disk image on the server.
You can then move that disk
image wherever you want.
And you'll be able to restore the
data with another single click,
right Steve?
[Transcript missing]
So what I'd like to do at this time
is invite Jason Townsen up on stage
so that he can show you some of the
cool directory services tools that
we're shipping as part of Tiger.
Thanks, Steve.
All right, can we go over to demo one?
Thank you.
So I want to show you--
A few things with the
Directory Service tools.
Some of you might be
already familiar with DSCL,
but go ahead and look at that.
One change that we made in Tiger is
that you can start DSCL without
giving it any parameters,
and that just puts it
in interactive mode.
So it's just as if you typed...
Well, it's, yeah,
so for some reason that's not coming up.
It's the same as if doing this,
DSCO local host.
[Transcript missing]
and David O'Rourke, Jason Townsend,
Okay, can we... Let's see.
I'm just going to go ahead and reboot.
[Transcript missing]
I just want to mention everything
went just fine when I ran through
this about 20 minutes ago,
so I don't know what happened
between then and now.
But anyway, what I was going to show you,
and I will show you in just a moment,
DSCL has an interactive mode where you
can explore your directory hierarchy.
So you can do basically
anything you could do through
the Directory Services API at
the command line,
and it's a good way of
seeing what's going on at the
lowest level or testing out,
for example,
Like the get-dir-node-info,
you can do a read command and see all
the attributes on a particular node.
So if you're developing a
directory service plugin,
it's very useful to be able
to do things at a low level.
I accidentally booted
off the wrong partition.
Anyway, so the other thing,
you can actually use
DSCL to make modifications.
So you can edit any attribute.
You can create records
and delete records.
Basically anything you would want to do.
There's also a one-shot mode there,
which allows you to create scripts.
So for example,
a lot of people may have used Nickel in
the past or NIUtil to create scripts,
to create records or, you know,
set up something in the directory.
You can do all the same stuff that you
used to do with those tools using DSCL.
And it's possible to use that against
LDAP or Active Directory or whatever
directory service plugin is available.
It's not limited to just NetInfo.
[Transcript missing]
Just to give you some control
over what shows up under /network.
Let's see, what else?
Yeah, basically,
if you've used /Network on
a big corporate network,
you end up with hundreds
of items in there,
and it's just really confusing.
So we want to give you
a way to avoid that.
Okay, can we go back to the demo machine,
please?
Okay, I'm just logging in right now.
All right, so let's start with DSCL.
So, DSCL.
So I can just type DSCL,
go straight into interactive mode.
So just to tell you, because of all the
changes we've been doing,
we've run into some problems like this,
but this is the sort of thing
that's not going to be in the
shipping version of Tiger.
This is just a transitional
kind of problem.
But we debug things
like that all the time.
With all the different threads
going on in Directory Service,
it's possible to get deadlocks.
So I can go into NetInfo,
and like I was saying,
I can see all the attributes
on the node just by doing a
read command at that level.
I can see all the authentication
methods and the record types.
It's a read-write node.
There's all kinds of information there.
I could go into groups,
and I can actually even do tab
completion when I'm changing to
different levels in the hierarchy,
which is pretty convenient.
If you're used to using Nickel,
that's sort of a new
feature in DSCL over Nickel.
And I have a group here
called Engineering,
actually.
So I can see all my groups.
I've got a group called Engineering.
And you see in this group that there are,
in addition to the normal list of
short names there that you're used to,
there are these group members, GUIDs,
the Global Unique Identifiers.
And so if I decided, well, actually,
there's a new guy just started.
- I'm not really confident in doing that,
so actually what I could do is
I could just go to Workgroup
Manager and bring that up,
and then, you know, I could just go to
Workgroup Manager and say,
"Hey, I'm going to do this."
I'm going to go ahead
and do a quick test.
Maybe do it from Workgroup Manager.
There we go.
Once I log in,
I can go look at the groups.
And I see all the members there.
I can just drag Mike in.
But actually I wanted to do
it from the command line.
So let's go back to the command line.
You can see how that would work in
Workgroup Manager pretty obviously.
- Which is this new
tool we added in Tiger.
And I'm gonna use the user admin.
I'm gonna do an edit operation and
then just add Mike to engineering.
And then it prompts me for my password.
And at this point, it should be done.
So go ahead and refresh that.
And there's Mike in the group.
Okay.
So you can do all kinds
of things with this tool.
I'm not going to go through all of them,
but you can remove users,
you can read the group,
and you can create groups,
change the GID,
all kinds of things like that.
It's all in the man page
if you want to look at it.
And so we're hoping that that will
make scripting of setting up these
new groups really easy for you guys.
And the other thing I wanted to show you,
this was actually there in Tiger,
or in Panther already, is the inspector.
So you can see all the same
stuff that you see in DSCL right
there in Workgroup Manager.
And if you don't see the inspector tab
and you don't see this little target,
you're going to have to
go back and look at it.
And if you don't see the target icon,
you can go into the preferences and
just turn on show all records tab
and inspector to get that feature.
And you can edit things in a raw mode if
you know exactly what you want to change.
All right, so for part two of the demo,
since we're doing the extended demo,
we'll go to look at /network.
So let's take a look at what
that looks like right now.
So network, we've got--
[Transcript missing]
There's this new icon in
the toolbar called Network.
You may have noticed if you've
been playing with the seed.
So I go there.
I can go ahead and create a default view.
And then--
[Transcript missing]
CoreOS Engineering.
Actually, I think I wanted those
in the other order,
but okay, there we go.
It's going alphabetical.
So I can go ahead and put
inside Core Server Engineering,
I wanted to put some computers.
I've got some computers over here,
which I can bring up actually with the
show or hide computers command there.
I can just take those and drag
them in to a neighborhood,
and then it's a normal tree
view like you're used to,
put computers in there.
I could also put another neighborhood
inside of a neighborhood.
So I could say Core Server members,
for example.
Another thing that really, I think,
makes this very useful is the
fact that you're not limited to
just manually putting all these
computers in to the neighborhoods
and doing everything by hand.
You can actually say that you want to add
a Directory Service node path in there.
So anything that was already
showing up in slash network before,
I could go ahead and put in wherever
in the hierarchy I want it to go.
So for example,
let's say these two are zones
that I know apply to me,
or neighborhoods that apply to me,
nodes that apply to me, I should say.
I'll just add those in.
[Transcript missing]
- And then that'll just
drop it right in there.
And maybe I'll put that up here.
Okay, so that looks pretty good.
Actually, I'm gonna take a look
at the settings as well.
So right now you can see it's set
to add it to the network view.
You can also replace,
that's really what I want.
I wanna see just what I have set
up and not all the dynamic stuff.
So I get a very simplified view.
And you can see in the finder,
there it is.
Now under /network,
I just have only those two neighborhoods.
So that's quite a bit
easier for me to deal with.
I can see only the stuff that I wanted.
And actually, here in the core server
members neighborhood,
here's all the computers in those two
directory service nodes that I added.
But it's quite a bit less
noise for me to deal with.
And if I'm already
binding to an LDAP server,
all this can be in the LDAP server.
So I just pick it up based on what the
network administrator wanted me to get.
And the other thing, of course,
in the settings,
you could actually add it.
So if I wanted to merge the two,
I could get all the dynamic stuff plus
some managed stuff up at the top there.
So I can kind of see the
stuff I'm more likely to want,
but all the other stuff
is still available.
And that's up to the
network administrator of
how they want to set it up.
All right.
We can go back to the slides now.
Thank you.
Big round of applause.
We've all dealt with
pre-release software.
Jason, I thought, did very well.
Thank you.
So Jason previewed the
next topics of Tiger,
which is Service Discovery in Tiger.
Tiger already supports Rendezvous,
Windows, AppleTalk, and SLP.
You all know that.
You use it in Panther today.
We're giving our yearly
warning that SLP may be
retired in a future OS release,
or at least made an optional install.
So you really should be
moving your applications off
of SLP and onto Rendezvous.
There's many sessions
about how to do that.
There's lots of sample code.
It's really a better way to go.
New features,
and so we have a new feature
which Jason just demoed called
Managed Network Browsing.
This allows you to completely
customize the browsing of your network,
and it allows mixing of static and
dynamic data so you can take two
Apple Talk zones and present them as
a single folder called the pubs group
rather than as their geographic names,
which they might be in
the Apple Talk routers.
So this is a very powerful feature.
Basically, customers have been requesting
this feature for years,
and so how do I -- we
always receive reports,
how do I control what
shows up under /network?
And up until now, it's been some very
archaic mount records.
There's never a way to
create directly a structure.
Well, I want a folder structure
that looks like this.
And so we've now given you
complete and total control over
what shows up under /network.
Tiger offers that in Workgroup
Manager through the administration tools.
And the feature implementation
consists of three changes.
A new schema in the Open Directory server
to store the Vue data,
changes to Mac OS X server admin
tools to create the Vue data,
and changes in the Mac OS X client to
use the Vue data should it be present.
Because if the data's there and the
client didn't pay attention to it,
it wouldn't do it any good.
So what can you do with this?
To summarize,
administrators can control the structure
of an arbitrary hierarchy and name.
So you can name them anything you want.
You can put them in any order you want.
You can add static entries for servers on
your networks or your partner's network.
This is a very,
very interesting feature in my opinion.
We have it running at home,
and all my engineers have
their home servers entered
into Apple's slash network Vue,
even though they're not
part of Apple's network.
So by creating a static entry,
you could point to a customer
who you're working with.
You can have their file servers
show up in your slash network Vue.
This has not been possible up until now.
You can manage,
or you can merge and rename
dynamic service discovery.
So you can effectively
rename your SLP scopes,
your Windows neighborhoods,
or your Apple Talk zones through
managed network browsing.
So you can create a new folder and add
as many static servers as you want,
and automatically also include all the
servers found in a particular SLP scope
or in your local rendezvous zone.
You can control if
clients see the raw data,
and if they see the
data that's not there,
you can control the data.
The data is either the raw network,
the managed network, or both.
So I can, for some clients,
turn off the raw network Vue and
only show them a customized Vue
with three folders of the servers
that they want to work with.
For power users on my network,
I can leave the structured Vue present
and also still let them see the raw Vue.
and all view and browsing data
stored in the Open Directory server.
So this all replicates
out all of your replicas.
So you make the change in one place,
all of your machines that are
bound to Open Directory immediately
see the change.
Replication and Global Access is
the other feature.
So we're now going to do the
Managed Network Browsing demo.
Okay, we're done.
We'll move on.
So the Managed Network Browsing summary,
it's new Open Directory schema.
There's client changes and there's
administration tool changes.
The ability for network administrators
to tailor the network for their view.
And it's a powerful new tool included
with Tiger Client and Server.
The one thing I do want to go over
that's not clear is you can have
different views in the directory.
So I can target a view at a machine's
particular MAC address and have a
general view for everybody else.
So I can have multiple views in
Open Directory and completely customize
it to the CEO's machine sees a simpler
view than the IT administrator's.
So authentication changes.
Tiger Server has some
changes to authentication.
They're not major.
The Tiger Server now supports NTL and V2,
so you can play better
with Windows networks.
The Tiger S&B server can now support
Kerberized authentication with the
better Active Directory support,
but that extends to all the
Kerberized services on Mac OS X.
And the password server in
MIT KDC will offer tighter
password policy integration.
For example, the KDC has no notion of the
last successful authentication,
so we're adding some codes so that
the last successful authentication
gets synchronized with the
password server's notion of that,
and some other minor changes.
The Tiger client will also offer better
support for Kerberos-only environments.
Some customers have really liked
the integration we've done,
but they have an existing Kerberos
infrastructure on their network.
And what they wanted to do was
be able to hit login window
and log on with just Kerberos.
There's some bugs in that.
We're going to fix that for client
for Tiger so that you can have
a pure Kerberos environment with
no password server if you want.
Password server will no longer be
running by default on all Tiger servers.
This is if you want to harden
a server and not have any
ports open that you don't need.
It will be running on an
Open Directory master,
but it will not be running on servers
that are not hosting Open Directory.
So you can bring the server up and
there's no extra network ports open.
Password server is no longer
required in a standalone mode,
so that's an excellent feature.
Password Server Authentication
Methods in Tiger,
they remain largely the same with the
addition of the one on the bottom for
SMB file sharing we support in TLMv2.
So other than that,
I'll give you time to look over this.
But these are the authentication
methods that the password
server currently supports.
And you can see for Tiger,
we're just simply adding
the SMB file sharing.
So, local authentication requirements.
For the developers in the audience,
I want to remind you
that Crypt is still dead.
Default local authentication
is now stored in a shadow hash.
You probably have already found
out if your application relied on
Crypt because we broke you in Panther.
Crypt still works,
but none of the system administration
tools will create a Crypt user.
If you know what you're
doing with DSCL or Nickel,
you can still create a Crypt user,
but we don't recommend it.
There are security problems with it.
Just don't do it.
So, your application,
if it hasn't already been broken,
I don't know how, but if it's not,
you should be moving on to either PAM,
Security Framework or Directory Services,
or an authentication abstraction.
Again, I want to emphasize this
was not a bug in Panther.
This was a design decision.
It was a necessary
migration for security.
So, if you're a network application,
though, we want you to adopt Kerberos.
and attend the authentication
session after lunch.
For those of you who don't
know from last year's session,
we're investing heavily in Kerberos.
We're aggressively migrating all of our
networking products to use Kerberos,
and Apple has already shipped
the MIT KDC with Mac OS 10.3,
and we already ship a Kerberos
client and have since Jaguar.
All Kerberos all the time is
in Apple's future and yours.
So you guys can make your planning
today because eventually we hope to
do away with any challenge response
based password authentication methods.
So if you're interested
in authentication,
there's a session following lunch
with no demos that will talk to
you about everything you need to
know about network authentication,
session 640.
In closing, there's a lot of reference
documentation on Open Directory.
We have Mac OS X server resources.
We have Open LDAP configuration files.
Everyone always asks me,
where do we document the LDAP schemas?
We don't keep them secret in
the Open LDAP config files
for anybody to inspect.
The LDAP server has to
be told what they are.
But we are providing documentation,
the written and print
documentation as well.
But sometimes the print
documentation goes to press before
we finish the final schema changes.
The actual config files for
Open LDAP are the most authoritative
reference because the LDAP server
has to implement the schema.
So those are always correct.
And the Mac OS X security APIs.
Also, there's this little
window here at the bottom.
There's a lot of very
good technical briefs.
If you need to educate your coworkers
at your site or something like that,
what is Open Directory, why is it?
Apple's done some wonderful work
on setting up some technical
briefs and some white papers.
Those are on the Mac OS X server website.
I recommend you read them.
We use a lot of open source,
so these are some of the open source
sites that you can get more information.
We have the OpenLDAP site,
we use SASL and the password server,
we use PAM for all of
our command line tools,
and we use Kerberos.
So as a wrap-up,
Open Directory is Apple's integration
solution for directory systems.
It's a robust client of many,
many directory systems.
You can work with NIS, Etsy files,
Active Directory, LDAP, iPlanet,
Novell through LDAP integration.
We can interconnect with
virtually anything that's a
major deployed directory system.
Open Directory and Mac OS X Server offers
a complete directory server for
those of you who haven't already
deployed a directory system.
It's easy.
It's three or four clicks,
and you can have a world-class,
scalable directory server up running
Kerberos in less than two minutes.
Tiger has many exciting enhancements,
at least we think so.
Managed network browsing is perhaps
one of the most exciting for us,
and it offers you as an administrator
unprecedented control over your
network browsing experience.
And the Open Directory administration
tools are being enhanced to make
your lives easier on a daily basis.